
                    Data Entry - Gamification

    I. Problem Statement

The world is going through a process of Digitalization. In a lot of cases this 
means transferring data from paper to digital storage solutions in order to 
make it available for Data Science and other tools.

This is a problem because it is not a simple thing to do especially when your 
organization is for example a government institution with years of data in 
large volumes. It is simply too expensive to hire employees for this task. 

Hiring in cheaper regions has risks as the cultural/language differences might 
influence the reliability of the transferred data.


    II. Business Case 

One solution is to hire employees for this purpose, train them, give them 
equipment and support and additional resources depending on the project.

Another solution, which we are using in this project, is to organize the 
process of transferring the data similar to a game, with appropriate rewards, 
and make it available to the current employees. 

    1. Reduced costs

This strategy will minimize the efforts and costs of having to hire a new 
department and the related costs to that strategy as current employees already 
have training, resources and the equipment.

    2. Improved motivation

Gamifying boring tasks results in improved motivation to complete this type of 
work because of the additional rewards.

    3. Quick Training

The solution will contain interactive training similar to a game or a tutorial 
one might find on the Internet with images and from the beginner level.

    4. Easy scaling

If additional resources are required for the data input volume to increase, 
they can be assigned from other departments or hired more quickly into the 
already existing mechanism. 


    III. Stakeholder Map - email communications

    1. High influence, high interest (updated often)

Data Science team Leadership.

    2. High influence, low interest (update on milestones)

Company, HR, Data Science, current Archive leadership.

    3. Low influence, low interest (update on need basis, crowdsource if needed)

All possible employees that might be participating.

    4. Low influence, high interest (update on milestones, pilot often)

Employees that will manage and use the system primarily - data scientists, QA, 
trainers.


    IV. Goal Statement

Currently there is no system to add Archive data from paper into the system, 
at the end of the project we will have one. 

That system will give us metrics on how fast data is being introduced, how 
much is left and estimations on how much more time it will take if we increase 
resources.

If we were to train a person from a beginner level at this time, it would take 
another person and two working days. The training materials and the level by 
level approach will not require the additional person except for a small number 
of edge cases and work on the beginner level tasks can begin in a few hours.

We will know the system is done when the flow of data input is in place and 
works successfully with proof the data is added as intended. At the same time, 
the training materials are also successful at giving the beginner users 
complete information on how to do the tasks successfully. We measure this by 
the amount of questions the new users ask the training personnel which will 
expose gaps in the knowledge transfer.


    V. Timeline - Milestones

    1. MVP - 1 month

Simple system with an input web interface and a database and adding an item 
from paper to the database can be demo-ed.

    2. Complete User Input System - 1 month

User accounts, security and reward system every entry 1 point.

    3. Telemetry and Analytics system - 1 month

Pages with reports on how much input was done, progress rate, history covered.

    4. Training materials and knowledge base - 1 month

Pages with information that is easily accessed by users and covers all data 
input steps.

    5. Beta testing - 1 month

    6. Deployment


    VI. Scope

    1. The Input System
    - User account creation 
    - Authentication
    - Authorization
    - HTTPS
    - Traceability with log lines - User “abcd” added Archive Item “1234”
    - 1 point added to user for every entry
    - User level up from 5 points to level 1, afterwards, level experience 
    increase is previous level points + 20%
    - html form to type the data in that will add it to the Database
    - SQL database with user and data tables with fields for all information 
    types

    2. Telemetry and Analytics system
    - How many entries this day
    - How many average daily entries
    - How many total entries since beginning
    - How far back in time the entries reached (input is done from most recent 
    to oldest)
    - Quality % - QA team will analyze 10 input entries and determine the 
    percentage from that every day
    - Quality history

    3. Training materials
    - Page for account creation
    - Page for how points and levels work
    - Page for every field in the form, how to fill it and how to avoid mistakes


    VII. Team

    Project Manager - John Doe
    Senior Developer - Jane Smith
    Developer - Mike Adams
    Junior Developer - Bill Bob



